So let's work on the cart screen now to which you can navigate. For this, in the screens folder,
let's add a new cart_screen.dart file or whatever you want to name it
and in there, I'll add a stateless widget, cart screen and simply import, as always, material.dart
from the Flutter package. Now as always,
it's totally up to you how you build that screen and what you want to show there and so on. On my cart summary
screen here,
in the end I want to show a little box that shows us the total amount and allows us to order all the
items in the cart and below that, I want to have a list of cart items where we can also swipe the icons
to dismiss and delete them.
So since this will make up the entire screen, let's add scaffold here as a root widget in this stateless
widget here, in our own widget
and of course let's add an appBar here where I say your cart, should be on the title though,
so here on the title of this appBar, I'll add a text widget where I say your cart,
anything like that
and of course, then we'll have a body in here which shows the content of our cart. Now
as I said, I want to have a box with a summary of the cart and then below that, all cart items.
So since there are two items, two elements above each other, we'll need a column for sure like this and
column takes children as you learned and the first child here will be a cart and I'll take the built-in
in cart widget to have some nice built-in styling out of the box, add a little bit of margin around it
with the margin argument on cart and I'll use EdgeInsets.all 15
maybe, you can of course play around with that value to find the value that best suits your needs and
the child here of my cart will now be a row because I'll have a couple of pieces of
information next to each other.
Actually the direct child will be a padding because I want to have some padding in the cart with
EdgeInsets.all 8 maybe
and then here, I'll have a child which now is my row of elements. So a row of items inside of my cart
surrounded by some padding
and now in that row, I essentially want to have a text widget where I say total because I am showing
the total here and I'll add a little bit of style there and give this a text style object
therefore, where I want to set the font size to 20 and of course, that should be inside of the text widget,
like this.
So give this a font size of 20 maybe and next to the text, I want to have a SizedBox with a width of 10 to add
some spacing because now next to that, I'll add a widget which we haven't used before,
the chip widget which is also a little a little bit like our badge, our label, an element with rounded
corners which you can use to display information.
The chip takes a label and that is a widget or that requires a widget and I'll use a text widget here
where I want to show my sum, my total
sum of the items I have in the cart. For that of course, we need to calculate the cart total and as before,
it's always a good idea to not do something like this in your widgets but move such logic into your
models, into your classes.
So here, I'll move it into the cart class with a new getter. There I'll return a double with a getter, double
get total amount or whatever you want to name it
and here I want to return the total of all my cart items. Now for that to return my total here, I'll create
a new helper variable, total, which is 0.0 initially and then here, I want to go through all
the elements in my cart, so on my items_items with forEach, I can execute a function on every
entry in that map and it will receive that entry as an argument, to be precise it will receive the key
and then the value for that entry,
so my cart item
so to say and then in that function, I can do something. So it runs this function for every item in my
map and this is a map of cart items in the end.
So here, I can then take my existing total which I initialize with zero and simply add something to it
with this plus equal shortcut which adds something to the value and then stores the new value back in
that variable. So I add something to that value and that something is cartItem.price times
cartItem.quantity.
So I go through all my cart items and then I calculate the total by multiplying all the quantities with
the prices and then that total is what I return here.
So that's my total amount and in the cart screen, I need that total amount. Therefore in the cart screen,
I need to listen to changes in my cart and I'll do this here with provider of because I'm fine with
rebuilding everything when something in a cart changes, theoretically the appBar of course doesn't
need to rebuild if something in a cart changes, it doesn't really hurt though, you could of course just
wrap the parts that really are affected but to save some lines of code and because it doesn't have a
huge impact here, I'll just set up a general listener here directly at the beginning of build and there,
I reach out to my cart with provider for which you need to import the provider package and you will also
need to import your cart model, your cart class.
So with provider of for the type cart of context. This gives me access to the cart and with that access,
I also setup my listener,
I'm fine with listening to changes here, I want to rebuild when something changes,
so here I can then access cart total amount and convert this to a string
but actually that won't be required here because what I actually pass here to the text widget is a string
with some string interpolation where I access between my curly braces cart total amount, to string is then
called automatically and in front of that, I want to show the dollar sign.
So to use it as a dollar sign, we need to escape with a backslash
and then here, this shows the dollar sign
and this here sets up string interpolation where it outputs the total amount.
Now that chip in which I'm outputting this can also be configured to get some background color and there,
I want to use my primary theme color,
so with theme of context primary color, I do set up this background color
and with that, we already have something that would be interesting to view.
So to reach that cart screen, we need to be able to go there and I want to route there with a named route,
so I'll add a static const, routeName here at the top of the cart screen class, at the top of our widget
here and give this a name of /cart,
that name is of course totally up to you
as you learned in the navigation module and in main.dart, we can now register this. Here in the routes
table,
we add our cart screen and for that, you need to add an import here from ./screens/cart_screen.dart,
then down there, you can refer to CartScreen.routeName as your key and then in that builder method
which Flutter calls for you, you create a new cart screen object. So now with the cart screen registered,
we can go there from inside our ProductsOverview when we tap this cart button.
So here in this method here, I want to use navigator of context and then use pushNamed to go to the
cart screen. So there, I refer to cart screen
and for that, you need to import that screen here,
so add an import pointing at ./cart_screen.dart and with that import added here, down there
where I create the route, I refer to CartScreen.routeName and push that named route. Let's give this
a try,
let's click on the cart and I'm taken to the cart,
you see we have nothing in the cart and hence a total value of 0.
If I now add this item by clicking on the cart button twice, I have 119.98 here which
makes sense if we have a look at our products because what I chose is the trousers and the trousers
have a price of 59.99,
I clicked on the cart icon twice so I added two of them and hence, the total here makes sense, it's two
trousers.
So that works,
now what would be nice here is a change colour of the text.
So in the cart screen here, in our chip on that text here, I can add a style, a text style here and give
this a different color and there I want to reach out to the theme and take my primary text theme and there,
my title color. So only the color which would normally be assigned to title text elements that have the
primary text theme and that by default then uses white as a contrast color to the dark purple background.
It would also be nice to have some spaceBetween
and that's very easy to do as you learned of course. On the row here which holds the different items where
I want to have spaceBetween, we can set a main axis alignment of MainAxisAlignment.spaceBetween
and what this ensures is that it adds spaceBetween total and that chip here. That chip alone is
pretty boring however, next to the chip,
I also want to have a button that allows us to place the order.
So next to the chip, I'll add a FlatButton where the child is a text widget, where I say order now, something
like that, all caps maybe and onPressed, I'll not do anything for the moment because we have no functionality
to place orders yet.
I'll give it a text color though, which I get from my theme and there, I simply want to use the primary
color. So this adds a FlatButton which we now also see here, the order now button. Now thanks to spaceBetween
by the way,
we don't really need that sizedBox with the width here though because we can simply distribute the
space like that
and if you want to make sure that both the chip and the order now button are pushed all the way to the
right
but this total is pushed all the way to the left,
there's a special widget you can add between the text and the chip and
that's the spacer widget which is built into Flutter
and if you add that, that basically takes up all the available space and reserves it for itself and therefore,
we get this look we have here.
So now we have the summary card,
let's next display the cart items below that though.